===Descent===
* (C??) The segments can be arranged to form a binary tree.
We define three operations:
# p(i) = i * 2      ("product")
# q(i) = i / 3      ("quotient")
# r(i) = 4 * i - 1  ("root")
The edges of the tree are labelled accordingly.

Empirical computations show that a contiguous set of initial rows of T can ultimately be attached to segment 1 as shown in the following table:
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:left"
!Computed rows!! Attachable to row 1   || Limit
|-
|        7    || 7                     || &gt; 2
|-                                       
|       61    || 13                    || &gt; 8
|-                                       
|      547    || 128                   || &gt; 32
|-                                       
|     4921    || 319                   || &gt; 128
|-                                       
|    44287    || 910                   || &gt; 512
|-                                       
|   398581    || 2128                  || &gt; 2048
|-                                       
|  3587227    || 10448                 || &gt; 8192 
|-                                       
| 32285041    || 30488 (< 32768 !)     || '''&lt;''' 32768 !
|}
There seems to be no limit for the growth of the tree, but there is no obvious formula for such a limit.

Therefore we show by an infinite descent argument that there is only one tree which ultimately comprises all numbers. 

Suppose that we construct a tree from the rows of T starting with nodes 2 and 3 in row 1, and attaching always the rows for the lowest nodes in the tree where no row was already attached.

Suppose further that there were some nodes (above 30488) which are never reached by this process, and which build a separate tree. Let ''n'' be the smallest of the nodes in the separate tree. We will show that there is a node ''m'' which  is connected to ''n'' and which is smaller than ''n''. This will be a contradiction.

The following table shows the case-by-case analysis:
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:left"
! Form of n             !! Smaller node m
|-
| T[i, j] = 3 * k       || T[i, j + 1] = k      
|-                                       
|  3 * k      || 13                    || &gt; 8
|-                                       
|      547    || 128                   || &gt; 32
|-                                       
|     4921    || 319                   || &gt; 128
|-                                       
|    44287    || 910                   || &gt; 512
|-                                       
|   398581    || 2128                  || &gt; 2048
|-                                       
|  3587227    || 10448                 || &gt; 8192 
|-                                       
| 32285041    || 30488 (< 32768 !)     || '''&lt;''' 32768 !
|}


